Dumbbell Side Raise: Shoulder
	1. Pick a couple of dumbbells and stand with a straight torso and the dumbbells by your side at arms length with the palms of the hand facing you. This will be your starting position.
	2. While maintaining the torso in a stationary position (no swinging), lift the dumbbells to your side with a slight bend on the elbow and the hands slightly tilted forward as if pouring water in a glass. Continue to go up until you arms are parallel to the floor. Exhale as you execute this movement and pause for a second at the top.
	3. Lower the dumbbells back down slowly to the starting position as you inhale.
	4. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
		Variation: This exercise can also be performed sitting down.
		
Dumbbell Alternate Biceps Curl: Biceps
	1. Stand (torso upright) with a dumbbell in each hand held at arms length. The elbows should be close to the torso and the palms of your hand should be facing your thighs.
	2. While holding the upper arm stationary, curl the right weight as you rotate the palm of the hands until they are facing forward. At this point continue contracting the biceps as you breathe out until your biceps is fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder levell. Hold the contracted position for a second as you squeeze the biceps. Tip: Only the forearms should move.
	3. Slowly begin to bring the dumbbell back to the starting position as your breathe in. Tip: Remember to twist the palms back to the starting position (facing your thighs) as you come down.
	4. Repeat the movement with the left hand. This equals one repetition.
	5. Continue alternating in this manner for the recommended amount of repetitions.
		Variations:
		There are many possible variations for this movement. For instance, you can perform the exercise sitting down on a bench with or without back support and you can also perform it using both arms at the same time. Additionally, you may perform it with a starting position in which both palms are facing forward. In this case, you may alternate the arms as well, or perform at the same time.
		You can also do the exercise starting with both palms of the hands facing the torso and then rotating forward as the movement is performed. At the top of the movement the palms should face forward and the small finger should be higher than the thumb for a peak contraction.
		Just like the Dumbbell Biceps Curl except you alternate each hand, curling one dumbbell at a time.
		
Dumbbell Palm-Ups Wrist Curl: Forearms
	1. Start out by placing two dumbbells on the floor in front of a flat bench.
	2. Sit down on the edge of the flat bench with your legs at about shoulder width apart. Make sure to keep your feet on the floor.
	3. Use your arms to grab both of the dumbbells and bring them up so that your forearms are resting against your thighs with the palms of the hands facing up. Your wrists should be hanging over the edge of your thighs.
	4. Start out by curling your wrist upwards and exhaling.
	5. Slowly lower your wrists back down to the starting position while inhaling. Make sure to inhale during this part of the exercise. Tip: Your forearms should be stationary as your wrist is the only movement needed to perform this exercise.
	6. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
	7. When finished, simply lower the dumbbells to the floor.
		Variations:
		This exercise can also be performed using a barbell instead of a dumbbell.
		You can also focus on one arm at a time to isolate the forearms.
		
Barbell Bench Press: Chest
	1. Lie back on a flat bench. Using a medium width grip (a grip that creates a 90-degree angle in the middle of the movement between the forearms and the upper arms), lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. This will be your starting position.
	2. From the starting position, breathe in and begin coming down slowly until the bar touches your middle chest.
	3. After a brief pause, push the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out. Focus on pushing the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position at the top of the motion, hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. Tip: Ideally, lowering the weight should take about twice as long as raising it.
	4. Repeat the movement for the prescribed amount of repetitions.
	5. When you are done, place the bar back in the rack.
		Caution:
		If you are new at this exercise, it is advised that you use a spotter. If no spotter is available, then be conservative with the amount of weight used.
		Also, beware of letting the bar drift too far forward. You want the bar to touch your middle chest and nowhere else.
		Don't bounce the weight off your chest. You should be in full control of the barbell at all times.
		
Crunch: Abdominals
	1. Lie on the floor with your back flat and knees bent with around a 60-degree angle between the hamstrings and the calves.
	2. Keep your feet flat on the floor and stretch your arms overhead with your palms crossed. This will be your starting position.
	3. Curl your upper body forward and bring your shoulder blades just off the floor. At all times, keep your arms aligned with your head, neck and shoulder. Don't move them forward from that position. Exhale as you perform this portion of the movement and hold the contraction for a second.
	4. Slowly lower down to the starting position as you inhale.
	5. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.
		Variations: For the most advanced lifters, a weighted plate can be held in your hands